#labels Featured
Instructions how to get going with ICE Explorer (beta 1)

=Requirements=
These items are required by ICE Explorer and need to be installed first:

 * [http://sourceforge.net/projects/pyopengl/ PyOpenGL]
 * [http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/software/pyqt/download PyQt]
 * [http://sourceforge.net/projects/numpy/files/ NumPy]

= Installation =
Download ice-cache-explorer-beta-1.zip

=How To Run=
From the installation folder:
python main.py

= Loading ICECache Data =
You can either load a folder containing a sequence of .icecache files:
 * File | Load Cache Folder ... 

Or one or multiple .icecache files. 
 * File | Load Cache File ... 

= Drag and Drop =
.icecache file(s) or folder can also be drag and dropped on the 3D view as an alternative for loading files.

= Viewing =
You can navigate in the 3D view with one of these tools: pan, orbit and zoom. They are all located in the 'Tools' toolbar. You can use presets to set the 3D view: perspective, top, front, right. These presets can be selected from the 'View' toolbar.
 
= Browser =
The Browser window contains a tree widget for listing .icecache files information. The widget is updated when the cache files are being loaded, since attribute values can be quite large, they are not loaded automatically. You can load them individually with the 'Display Data' context menu: right-click on the Attribute tree item. You can also display all attribute data of a cache: right-click on the Cache tree item.

= Export to ascii =
Cache files can be exported to ascii files:
 * File | Export Cache Folder ...
 * File | Export Cache File ...

note: The target folder is currently hardcoded to 'c:\temp'. 

You can also export caches from the Browser window: right-click on a Cache or Attribute item. 

=Cancel operation=
File export or load operations can be stopped by clicking on the Cancel button located in the File toolbar or by selecting the File|Cancel menu item.
 
=Playback=
The play back window allows you to animate a sequence of cache files. 

==Controls==
 * > Play a sequence. Releasing the button stops the sequence.
 * >. Play one frame forward.
 * .< Play one frame backward.
 * >| Move the playback cursor to end.
 * |< Move the playback cursor to start.
 * @ When the repeat button is pressed, the sequence can be played continously.
 * edit fields: start and end cache number can be specified.
 * Cursor: Move the cursor to scroll through cache files.

= Limitations =
 # The memory management is not quite optimized yet so the explorer will probably bust the memory if you try to load a huge number of files.
 # The 3D viewer supports these attributes only: PointPosition, Color